# Beroth Oil Co. v. North Carolina Dept. of Transp.

Cite: 757 S.E.2d 466, 476+
Court: N.C.
Issued Date: Apr. 11, 2014
Reviewed: Yes

**476:** “Indeed, the Chief Justice has designated fifty-two individual cases brought by Northern Beltway property owners against NCDOT consisting of very similar claims as “exceptional” pursuant to [Rule 2.1 of the General Rules of Practice for the Superior and District Courts](https://1.next.westlaw.com/Link/Document/FullText?findType=L&pubNum=1008947&cite=NCRSUPDR2.1&originatingDoc=Ibe9dde2ec5c611e390d4edf60ce7d742&refType=LQ&originationContext=document&transitionType=DocumentItem&ppcid=1a5bbfe795d040b6bc27c7a5aada1e3d&contextData=(sc.Search)). In a joint motion for designation of the cases as exceptional, the parties asserted that adjudication of the cases will “involve substantial judicial expertise, requiring the [trial c]ourt to engage in a study and examination of various issues relating to the Winston–Salem Northern Beltway and apply the applicable principles of law.” Given the “complex legal issues and numerous parties” involved, the parties requested a designation of the cases as “exceptional” so that all cases will be heard by the assigned Superior Court judge. The parties further argued that having the same judge preside over each case will promote judicial efficiency and prevent inconsistent results. Accordingly, the Chief Justice designated the cases as exceptional and assigned the cases to Superior Court Judge John O. Craig, III.”

**Footnote 7:** “These individual plaintiffs are represented by the same counsel as plaintiff-appellants in the case *sub judice.* In one motion for [Rule 2.1](https://1.next.westlaw.com/Link/Document/FullText?findType=L&pubNum=1008947&cite=NCRSUPDR2.1&originatingDoc=Ibe9dde2ec5c611e390d4edf60ce7d742&refType=LQ&originationContext=document&transitionType=DocumentItem&ppcid=1a5bbfe795d040b6bc27c7a5aada1e3d&contextData=(sc.Search)) designation, plaintiffs' counsel even lists the case *sub judice* as a case “that involve[s] the same legal issues and [is] very similarly pleaded.” It appears to us that a claim that some cases are exceptional is inconsistent with a claim by the same party that all these cases can be handled by means of a class action.”

**Defendant-Appellee’s New Brief 2013 WL 1901068:** “In short, Appellants' counsel agreed that the [Rule 2.1](https://1.next.westlaw.com/Link/Document/FullText?findType=L&pubNum=1008947&cite=NCRSUPDR2.1&originatingDoc=Id96e31fbb7fe11e2a98ec867961a22de&refType=LQ&originationContext=document&transitionType=DocumentItem&ppcid=71a0adaa144840948044fb01d4fdc731&contextData=(sc.RelatedInfo)) designation would “promote significant efficiencies,” “greater certainty of decision-making,” “enhance judicial efficiency,” and “prevent the risk of inconsistent judgments” for these claims. *Id.* These types of cases are manageable under a [Rule 2.1](https://1.next.westlaw.com/Link/Document/FullText?findType=L&pubNum=1008947&cite=NCRSUPDR2.1&originatingDoc=Id96e31fbb7fe11e2a98ec867961a22de&refType=LQ&originationContext=document&transitionType=DocumentItem&ppcid=71a0adaa144840948044fb01d4fdc731&contextData=(sc.RelatedInfo)) mechanism.” Also gives an example of how cases against the DOT with large amounts of Plaintiffs have previously been designated as exceptional for the same reasons.

********Joint Motion Pursuant to Rule 2.1… 2014 WL 12726809:******** “For all of the foregoing reasons (note: listed facts of the case) , and because the aforementioned cases involve complex legal issues and numerous parties, it will promote the efficient administration of justice for this action and the aforementioned cases, and all future lawsuits involving causes of action listed in ¶ 3) f) above and owners of property located within the Northern Beltway, to be designated as an “exceptional case.””

******Joint Motion Pursuant to Rule 2.1… 2014 WL 8508524:****** not substantially different from ********2014 WL 12726809********

****Joint Motion Pursuant to Rule 2.1… 2014 WL 8508531:**** not substantially different 

SUMMARY: Landowners are bringing an action against NC DOT for the construction of the Northern Beltway Project and are alleging inverse condemnation and seeking declaratory relief.

No Record Available on Westlaw

ANALYSIS: Parties moved for designation and it was approved to promote judicial efficiency (see pg 476). Also, the Plaintiffs wanted to move for class certification, but NC DOT argued that there are other efficient means of dealing with many similar cases. This also played a part in creating the designation as exceptional, a significant part of the opinion focuses on whether this case should be designated or whether it would be better as a class action. It was determined the class action would be inefficient because of the Plaintiffs’ want for a bifurcated trial and that the Plaintiffs have failed to show evidence of a class (even among 800 property owners effected). In the Joint Motion pursuant to Rule 2.1, there is a bulleted listing of the facts that the parties use to argue that their case should be designated as exceptional. Bullets 5-8 of these facts all reference the large number of cases that have arisen from the NC DOT Northern Beltway project. To me, this suggests that the parties knew that promoting judicial efficiency by taking care of so many cases at once would work strongly towards getting their case designated. I also want to mention that this is another designated case with a government/government-adjacent agency involved as a party, I am starting to think that status as such an agency results in a higher chance of designation. 

THEORY:  No theory needed, we know the reasoning behind why the case was designated.