# In re Estate of Mills

Cite: 765 S.E.2d 122, 122+
Court: N.C.App.
Issued Date: Sep. 02, 2014
Reviewed: Yes

122: “On 13 July 2012, the Chief Justice of the North Carolina Supreme Court designated the estate proceedings of decedent, the estate proceedings of Mrs. Mills, respondent's declaratory judgment action, and a separate civil action against decedent's estate as exceptional cases under [Rule 2.1 of the General Rules of Practice for the Superior and District Courts](https://1.next.westlaw.com/Link/Document/FullText?findType=L&pubNum=1008947&cite=NCRSUPDR2.1&originatingDoc=I2a900a3f32cb11e4b4bafa136b480ad2&refType=LQ&originationContext=document&transitionType=DocumentItem&ppcid=ebd56cf02e9b4efab91d681a30733ee8&contextData=(sc.DocLink)). The order assigned Special Superior Court Judge Richard L. Doughton to the cases designated as exceptional.” This case also defines and quotes Rule 2.1 directly. “The appointment of a specific superior court judge in this case simply meant that any matters for the superior court to decide would be decided by Judge Doughton. Nothing in the General Rules of Practice suggests that the appointment of a specific superior court judge divests a clerk of superior court of jurisdiction over matters within its statutory exclusive original jurisdiction. Respondent cites no authority suggesting that [Rule 2.1](https://1.next.westlaw.com/Link/Document/FullText?findType=L&pubNum=1008947&cite=NCRSUPDR2.1&originatingDoc=I2a900a3f32cb11e4b4bafa136b480ad2&refType=LQ&originationContext=document&transitionType=DocumentItem&ppcid=ebd56cf02e9b4efab91d681a30733ee8&contextData=(sc.DocLink)) designations are intended to—or legally could—alter the allocation of subject matter jurisdiction decided upon by the General Assembly.” 

Appellee’s Brief 2014 WL 1228008: “The Supreme Court's Order, (R pp 7-8), designating Judge Doughton, under [Rule 2.1 of the General Rules of Practice](https://1.next.westlaw.com/Link/Document/FullText?findType=L&pubNum=1008947&cite=NCRSUPDR2.1&originatingDoc=Ia98d3053b4f011e39ac8bab74931929c&refType=LQ&originationContext=document&transitionType=DocumentItem&ppcid=a04a8889d86041538523e342290aac2f&contextData=(sc.RelatedInfo)) for the Superior Court and District Courts, to hear matters related to the Estate of Harold Luther Mills, does not vest Judge Doughton with subject matter jurisdiction to hear matters that the legislature has specifically reserved for the Clerk of Superior Court as the judge of probate.”

Respondent-Appellant’s Brief 2014 WL 583493: “The estate proceeding for the Estate of Decedent, 08-E-169, was designated as an exceptional case, pursuant to [Rule 2.1 of the General Rules of Practice for the Superior and District Courts](https://1.next.westlaw.com/Link/Document/FullText?findType=L&pubNum=1008947&cite=NCRSUPDR2.1&originatingDoc=Iae92fb1f979b11e3a341ea44e5e1f25f&refType=LQ&originationContext=document&transitionType=DocumentItem&ppcid=7a19f169bb2d433980374c8189a294f7&contextData=(sc.RelatedInfo)), by Chief Justice Sarah Parker, on July 13, 2012. (R p 7). The Chief Justice certainly must have had a purpose in ordering this designation. To hold otherwise would make the Order of the Chief Justice on this specific designation a meaningless Order. By designating the estate of the Decedent as an exceptional case, the Chief Justice thereby put all estate matters (presumably at least of a contentious nature or having a nature of litigation or quasi-litigation) under the jurisdiction of Judge Richard L. Doughton, Special Judge of the Superior Court.”

In Record p 7-8, No Record on Westlaw

ANALYSIS: Gave reasoning for the designation: “Where, as here, a group of cases requires substantial judicial expertise and involves multiple claims regarding the same subject matter and parties, the appointment of one judge to preside over each case is intended to promote judicial efficiency and prevent inconsistent rulings.” Upon this, it seems that this case was designated as a result of multiple claims with the same fact/law questions to promote judicial efficiency. Additionally, this case states that Rule 2.1 (or other rules) do not suggest that appointing a specific Superior Court Judge would take power from the Clerk of Superior Court for the area when there is original jurisdiction. 

SUMMARY: Respondent argues trial court should have conducted a de novo review of the Clerk’s decision and that the determination that the Respondent had a private interest was not supported by the factual findings. The relevant issue is whether the designation took away power from the Clerk of Superior Court and mess up the subject matter jurisdiction of a case being designated.

THEORY: Not really necessary, analysis in opinion showed why the case was designated.